README.md, before:

# Learning RL Dynamics with Neural Network Ensembles

This repository contains the implementation of my MSc thesis work (link [here](https://ulb-dok.uibk.ac.at/ulbtirolhs/content/titleinfo/12445583)) on learning environment dynamics with neural network ensembles. The project explores deterministic vs probabilistic ensemble models for dynamics learning on D4RL benchmark datasets, and tracks training/evaluation with MLflow.

<!-- ![alt](assets/ensemble_learning.png) -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/ensemble_learning.png" alt="Ensemble learning diagram" width="700"/>
</p>

# Project Overview

- Implements ensemble neural networks for dynamics modeling:
  - Deterministic ensembles
  - Probabilistic ensembles
- Evaluates performance on D4RL datasets (commonly used for offline RL 
research).
- Logs metrics and artifacts using MLflow for experiment tracking.

The goal is to analyze how ensemble type (deterministic vs probabilistic) affects model quality and stability in learned dynamics models.

Repository Structure
```bash
.
├─ train_ensemble.py # Learns an ensemble of dynamics models
├─ models
|  ├ dynamics_model.py # Definition of general dynamics model
|  ├ deterministic_model.py # Definition of deterministic model
|  ├ probabilistic_model.py # Definition of probabilistic model
|  ├ utils.py # Generic functions and classes
├─ configs/ # Configuration files
├─ mlruns/ # Will contain tracked MLflow runs
├─ logs/ # Saved csv logs
├─ requirements.txt # Python dependancies
└── README.md
```

# Installation

The project was tested with Python 3.10.18. It is recommended to use ```pyenv``` to create a new virtualenv.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AndrewKM210/dynamics-ensembles-rl.git
cd dynamics-ensembles-rl
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -e .
```

# Usage

The available datasets can be found in the Gym section of the following link:
- https://github.com/Farama-Foundation/d4rl/wiki/Tasks

To learn the dynamics of a D4RL dataset with a configuration file and store to file:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --config configs/pnn.yaml --output ensemble.pkl
```

The dataset path can be set to save the downloaded dataset as a pickle for other applications:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --dataset_path ensembles/hopper_medium.pkl --config configs/pnn.yaml
```

The parameters in the configuration files can be replaced for testing:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --config configs/pnn.yaml --params fit_epochs=100 hidden_size=256,256
```

A holdout split of the dataset can be defined to track validation loss:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --config configs/pnn.yaml --holdout_ratio 0.2 --track_training
```

With ```--track_training``` all training metrics will be logged in each epochs. Otherwise, the script prioritizes execution time and skips expensive non-essential metrics. The metrics are logged to MLflow. To view them use the following command and open http://127.0.0.1:5000: 
```bash
mlflow ui --port 5000
```

Additionally, save tracked metrics to a specified csv file for analyzing and plotting:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --config configs/dnn.yaml --csv logs/hopper_dnn.csv --track_training
```

For managing and tracking experiments, [guildai](https://github.com/guildai/guildai) can also be used to track experiments with the `guild.yml` config file. This library can be useful for staging and tracking experiments in clusters (combined with SLURM). To install guildai:

```bash
pip install guildai
# pip install 'pydantic<2' fixes NameError
```

With the current guildai version, a "NameError: Fields must not use names with leading underscores" error is returned when running `guild run`, install 'pydantic<2' to fix this. An example of running a train_ensemble experiment with custom parameters is:

```bash
guild run train_ensemble config=./configs/pnn.yaml dataset=hopper-medium-v0 output=${PWD}/ensemble.pkl
```

Experiments can be tracked in real time with `guild tensorboard`. The final results of several runs can be compared and stored to a .csv file with `guild compare --csv results.csv`.

# Results

The following plots show the train and validation Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss while training different 2 neural network ensembles on D4RL's halfcheetah-medium-v0 dataset. Even though the deterministic ensemble achieves a better train loss, the probabilistic ensemble outperforms in the validation loss. Not using a learning rate scheduler for the probabilistic ensemble leads to unstable losses.

<picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="assets/loss_train_dark.png">
    <img src="assets/loss_train_light.png" alt="Train loss.">
</picture>

<picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="assets/loss_val_dark.png">
    <img src="assets/loss_val_light.png" alt="Validation loss.">
</picture>

# References

- Fu et al. D4RL: Datasets for Deep Data-Driven Reinforcement Learning. NeurIPS 2020.
- Chua et al. Deep Reinforcement Learning in a Handful of Trials using Probabilistic Dynamics Models (PETS). NeurIPS 2018.
- Kidambi et al. MOReL: Model-Based Offline Reinforcement Learning. NeurIPS 2020.
- MLflow: https://mlflow.org

Commit message:

Added code and README.md to download and reconstruct fully trained HuggingFace ensembles

README.md, after:

# Learning RL Dynamics with Neural Network Ensembles

This repository contains the implementation of my MSc thesis work (link [here](https://ulb-dok.uibk.ac.at/ulbtirolhs/content/titleinfo/12445583)) on learning environment dynamics with neural network ensembles. The project explores deterministic vs probabilistic ensemble models for dynamics learning on D4RL benchmark datasets, and tracks training/evaluation with MLflow.

<!-- ![alt](assets/ensemble_learning.png) -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/ensemble_learning.png" alt="Ensemble learning diagram" width="700"/>
</p>

# Project Overview

- Implements ensemble neural networks for dynamics modeling:
  - Deterministic ensembles
  - Probabilistic ensembles
- Evaluates performance on D4RL datasets (commonly used for offline RL 
research).
- Logs metrics and artifacts using MLflow for experiment tracking.

The goal is to analyze how ensemble type (deterministic vs probabilistic) affects model quality and stability in learned dynamics models.

Repository Structure
```bash
.
├─ train_ensemble.py # Learns an ensemble of dynamics models
├─ models
|  ├ dynamics_model.py # Definition of general dynamics model
|  ├ deterministic_model.py # Definition of deterministic model
|  ├ probabilistic_model.py # Definition of probabilistic model
|  ├ utils.py # Generic functions and classes
├─ configs/ # Configuration files
├─ mlruns/ # Will contain tracked MLflow runs
├─ logs/ # Saved csv logs
├─ requirements.txt # Python dependancies
└── README.md
```

# Installation

The project was tested with Python 3.10.18. It is recommended to use ```pyenv``` to create a new virtualenv.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AndrewKM210/dynamics-ensembles-rl.git
cd dynamics-ensembles-rl
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -e .
```

# Usage

The available datasets can be found in the Gym section of [this page](https://github.com/Farama-Foundation/d4rl/wiki/Tasks). 

## Downloading Fully Trained Ensembles

The weights of some fully trained ensembles can be found [this HuggingFace repository](https://huggingface.co/AndrewKM210/dynamics-ensembles-rl/tree/main). These can be used for other applications (such as [J-MOReL](https://github.com/andrewkm210/j-morel) and [MBiCEM](https://github.com/AndrewKM210/MBiCEM)), and can be downloaded to the *ensembles_hf* directory with:
```bash
git clone https://huggingface.co/AndrewKM210/dynamics-ensembles-rl ensembles_rf
```

The ensembles can be reconstructed from the weights with:
```bash
python convert_hf_ensemble.py --input ensembles_hf/halfcheetah_medium --output ensembles/halfcheetah_medium.pkl
```

The datasets can be processed and saved without training an ensemble with:
```bash
python load_dataset.py --dataset halfcheetah-medium-v0 --output datasets/halfcheetah_medium.pkl
```

## Training an Ensemble

To learn the dynamics of a D4RL dataset with a configuration file and store to file:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --config configs/pnn.yaml --output ensemble.pkl
```

The dataset path can be set to save the downloaded dataset as a pickle for other applications:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --dataset_path ensembles/hopper_medium.pkl --config configs/pnn.yaml
```

The parameters in the configuration files can be replaced for testing:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --config configs/pnn.yaml --params fit_epochs=100 hidden_size=256,256
```

A holdout split of the dataset can be defined to track validation loss:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --config configs/pnn.yaml --holdout_ratio 0.2 --track_training
```

With ```--track_training``` all training metrics will be logged in each epochs. Otherwise, the script prioritizes execution time and skips expensive non-essential metrics. The metrics are logged to MLflow. To view them use the following command and open http://127.0.0.1:5000: 
```bash
mlflow ui --port 5000
```

Additionally, save tracked metrics to a specified csv file for analyzing and plotting:
```bash
python train_ensemble.py --dataset hopper-medium-v0 --config configs/dnn.yaml --csv logs/hopper_dnn.csv --track_training
```

For managing and tracking experiments, [guildai](https://github.com/guildai/guildai) can also be used to track experiments with the `guild.yml` config file. This library can be useful for staging and tracking experiments in clusters (combined with SLURM). To install guildai:

```bash
pip install guildai
# pip install 'pydantic<2' fixes NameError
```

With the current guildai version, a "NameError: Fields must not use names with leading underscores" error is returned when running `guild run`, install 'pydantic<2' to fix this. An example of running a train_ensemble experiment with custom parameters is:

```bash
guild run train_ensemble config=./configs/pnn.yaml dataset=hopper-medium-v0 output=${PWD}/ensemble.pkl
```

Experiments can be tracked in real time with `guild tensorboard`. The final results of several runs can be compared and stored to a .csv file with `guild compare --csv results.csv`.

# Results

The following plots show the train and validation Mean Squared Error (MSE) loss while training different 2 neural network ensembles on D4RL's halfcheetah-medium-v0 dataset. Even though the deterministic ensemble achieves a better train loss, the probabilistic ensemble outperforms in the validation loss. Not using a learning rate scheduler for the probabilistic ensemble leads to unstable losses.

<picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="assets/loss_train_dark.png">
    <img src="assets/loss_train_light.png" alt="Train loss.">
</picture>

<picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="assets/loss_val_dark.png">
    <img src="assets/loss_val_light.png" alt="Validation loss.">
</picture>

# References

- Fu et al. D4RL: Datasets for Deep Data-Driven Reinforcement Learning. NeurIPS 2020.
- Chua et al. Deep Reinforcement Learning in a Handful of Trials using Probabilistic Dynamics Models (PETS). NeurIPS 2018.
- Kidambi et al. MOReL: Model-Based Offline Reinforcement Learning. NeurIPS 2020.
- MLflow: https://mlflow.org
